# ProM-Ex: Anomaly Detection in Process Mining
ProM-Ex is an advanced tool designed to detect and explain anomalies in process mining datasets, particularly timestamp anomalies in event logs. By leveraging machine learning models, SHAP analysis, and language models like Google Gemini-Pro, this project aims to provide an end-to-end solution for anomaly detection, root cause analysis, and insights generation.

## Features
 1) Timestamp Anomaly Detection: Utilizes Isolation Forest to detect anomalies in event logs.
 2) Activity n-Grams Analysis: Extracts n-gram features from activity sequences for detailed anomaly detection.
 3) SHAP Analysis: Provides interpretability by showing feature importance and their impacts on model decisions.
 4)LLM-based Explanation: Generates human-readable explanations for detected anomalies using Google Gemini-Pro.
## Installation
### Clone the repository:

```python
git clone https://github.com/SnehaJ765/ProM-Ex.git
```
### Navigate to the project directory:
```python
cd ProM-Ex
```
### Install the required dependencies:
```python
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
### Configure your Google API Key:
Create a .env file in the project root and add your Google API key:
```python
GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_google_api_key_here
```
### Usage
Running the Streamlit Application:
```python
streamlit run app.py
```
This will launch the ProM-Ex application in your web browser.
## Upload Event Logs:

 1) Upload CSV files containing your event logs via the application's interface.
 2) Select the appropriate columns for case IDs and activities.
## Analyze Anomalies:

1) The tool will process the event log, detect timestamp and activity anomalies, and display them.
2) Visualizations and SHAP-based explanations will be provided.
## LLM-Based Explanations:

Use the in-built chatbot to ask questions about the detected anomalies.
Receive detailed insights and recommendations generated by Google Gemini-Pro.
## Contributors
### Sneha Jadhav - [GitHub](https://github.com/SnehaJ765)
### Siddhima Singh - [GitHub](https://github.com/siddhima-singh)
